you
this lecture is about the evaluation of
types of categorization so we've talked
about the many different methods for
text of categorization but how do you
know which method works better and for
particular application how do you know
you this is the best way of solving your
problem to understand these we have to
how to we have to know how to evaluate
categorization results so first of some
general thoughts about the evaluation in
general for evaluating of this kind of
empirical tasks such as categorization
we use methodology was developed in
1960s by information retrieval
researchers called Cranfield evaluation
methodology the basic idea is to help
humans to create test collection where
we already know every document is tagged
up with the desired categories or in the
case of search for which query which
documents that should have been
retrieved and this is called ground
truth now with this grant choose test
collection we can then reuse the
collection to test the many different
systems and compare different systems we
can also turn off some component in a
system to see what's going to happen
basically it provides a way to do
control experiments to compare different
methods so this methodology has been
virtually used for all the tasks that
involve empirically defined problems so
in our case then we are going to compare
our systems categorization results with
the categorization ground rules created
by humans and we're going to compare our
systems and decisions which document
should get which category with what
categories have been assigned to those
documents by humans and we want to
quantify the similarity of these
decisions or equivalently to measure the
difference between the Syst
output and desired ideal photo generated
by the humans so of obviously the
highest similarity is the better the
results are the similarity can be
measured in different ways and that
would lead to different measures and
sometimes it's desirable also to measure
the similarity from different
perspectives just to have a better
understanding of the results in detail
for example we might be also interested
in knowing which category performs
better which category is easy to
categorize etc in general different
categorization mistakes however have
different the costs for a specific
application so some errors might be more
serious than others so ideally we would
like to model such differences but if
you read many papers in extra
calculation you will see that they don't
generally do that and instead they will
use a simplified measure and that's
because it's often okay not to consider
such a cost variation when we compare
different methods and we when we are
interested in knowing the relative
difference of these methods so it's okay
to introduce some bias as long as the
bias is not correlated with the
particular method and then we should
still expect a more effective method to
perform better than a less effective one
even though the measure is not perfect
so the first measure that we will
introduce is called classification
accuracy and this is basically to
measure the percentage of corrective
decisions so here you show that here you
see that there are K categories denoted
by C ones Ock and there are n documents
in order by D 1 through the N and for
each a pair of a category and the
document we can then look at the
situation and see if the system has said
yes to this pair basically has assigned
this category to this document or no so
this is denoted by Y or n that's the
system the decision and similarly we can
look at the humans decision
so if the human has assigned the a
category to the document in them there
will be a plus sign here that's just
that just means the human would think
this assignment is correct and if the
incorrect then is a minus so we will see
all combinations of these ends yes and a
nose with - end processes there are four
combinations in total and two of them
are correct
and that's when we have y + or ñ - right
and then there are also two kinds of
errors so the mesh of classification
accuracy is similar to count the how
many of these decisions are correct and
normalize that that by the total number
of decisions we have made so we know
that the total number of decisions is n
multiplied by K and the number of
corrupted decisions obviously are
basically of two kinds one is y pluses
and the other is n - and we just put
together the account now this is a very
convenient measure that will give us a 1
number to characterize performance of a
method and the higher the better of
course but the method also has some
problems first it has treated all the
decisions equally so but in reality
something errors are more serious than
others for example it may be more
important to get the decisions right on
some documents and others or may be more
some categories in others and this would
call for some detailed evaluation of
this without to understand the strengths
and weaknesses of different methods and
to understand the performance of these
methods in detail you know in a per
category or per document basis one
example that shows clearly the decision
errors are having different causes is
spam filtering that could be retrieved
as a two category categorization problem
missing a legitimate email resolve is
one type of
but letting em to come into your folder
is another type of error the two types
of errors are cleared it very different
because it's very important and not to
miss a legitimate email it's okay to
occasionally letter spam email to come
into your inbox so the error of the
first I'm missing a legitimate email is
very resolved high-cost it's very
serious mistake and classification error
classification accuracy does not address
this issue there's also another problem
with imbalance that has said in landing
is a skill that has said where most
instances are in category one and
ninety-eight percent of instances are in
category one only two percent are in
category two in such a case we can have
a very simple baseline that actually
performs very well and the baseline
would simply put all instances in the
major category and that would give us
nine eight percent accuracy in this case
it's going to be appearing to be very
effective but in reality this is
obviously not a good result and so in
general when we use classification
accuracy as a magical we want to ensure
that the classes are balanced and one of
about equal number of instances for
example in each class the minority
carrier is or classes tend to be
overlooking evaluating of classification
accuracy to address these problems we of
course would like to also evaluate the
results in other ways and in different
ways as I said it's been video to look
at the after nots multiple perspectives
so for example we can look at the
perspective from each document and
perspective based on each document so
the question here is how could other
decisions on this document now as in the
general cases of all decisions we can
think about the for combinations of
possibilities depending on whether the
system has serious and depending on
whether the human has said correct or
incorrect or seven years or no and so
the four combinations are first when
both the human system said yes and
that's
two positives when the system says yes
it's actually positive so when the
system says yes it's a positive but when
the human confirmed it is indeed correct
that becomes a true positive when the
system says yes but humans says no
that's incorrect that's a false positive
F P and when the system says no but the
human says yes then it's a false
negative we missed one assignment when
both the system and human say that no
then that's also correct decision that's
two negatives right so then we can have
some measures to to just better
characterize the performance by using
these phone numbers and so two popular
measures are precision and recall and
these are also proposed by information
retrieval researchers in 1960s for
evaluating searching with doubts but now
they have become a standard measure use
it everywhere so when the system says
yes we can ask the question how many are
correct what's the percent of correct
decision when the system says yes that's
called a precision it's a true positive
divided by all the cases when the system
says yes all the positives the other
recall are the other measure is called a
recall and this measures whether the
document that has got all the categories
it should have so in this case is to
divide the true positive by two
positives and the false negatives so
these are all the cases where this human
says the document should have this
category so this represents the old
categories that it should have gone and
so recall tells us whether the system
has actually indeed assigned all the
categories that it should have - this
document this gives us a detailed view
of the disease knowledge document then
we can aggregate them later and if we're
interested in some documents and this
would tell us how well we did on that
those documents a subset of them
might be more interesting others for
example and this allows us to analyze
errors in more detail as well we can
separate the documents of certain
characteristic from others and then look
at the errors you might have see a
pattern hey for this kind of document
listen long documents it doesn't do as
well as for short documents and this
gives you some insight the for improving
the matter similarly we can look at the
perk a viewer per category evaluation is
in this case we're going to look at the
how good are the decision on a
particular category and as in the
previous case we can define precision
and recall and it will just basically
answer the questions from a different
perspective right so when the system
says yes how many are correctly that
means looking at this category to see if
all the documents that are assigned with
this category are indeed in this
category right and recall would tell us
has the category being actor assigned to
all the documents that should have this
category it's sometimes also useful to
combine precision and recall as one
measure and this is often done by using
an F mesh and this is just a harmonic
mean of precision and recall defined on
this slide and it it's also controlled
by parameter beta 2 M to indicate the
where the precision is more important or
recall it's more important when beta is
set to 1 we have a measure called F 1
and in this case we just take a equal
weight upon both precision recall right
if one is very often used as a as a
measure for categorization now as in all
cases when we combine results you always
should think about the best way of
combining them so in this case I don't
know if you have thought about it and we
could have combined them just with the
arithmetic mean right so that would
still give you the same range of values
but obviously there's a reason why we
didn't do that and why if one is more
popular and it's after useful to think
about difference and if you think about
that you will see that that there is
indeed some difference
some undesirable property of this
arithmetic mean basically a will be
obvious to you if you think about our
case when the system says yes for all
the category and document appears and
even try to compute the precision and
recall in that case and see what would
happen right basically this kind of mesh
you were not the arithmetic mean is not
going to be as reasonable ff1 which
tends to prefer a trade-off between
precision recall so that the two values
are about equal so we if there's an
extreme case where you have zero for one
value and one for the other then
everyone will be low but the arithmetic
mean would still be reasonably high